The translation process in the backend app uses the machine translation engine provided by the Crowdin API.
Crowdin's Machine Translation Engine (MTS) is a feature that provides machine translations for various languages. It is a convenient and efficient way to translate large amounts of content quickly and cost-effectively. Crowdin's MTS uses advanced machine learning algorithms to analyze and translate source content. It's important to note that machine translations may not always be as accurate as human translations, so it's important to thoroughly review and edit the translations generated by MTS to ensure they are of high quality. However, it can still be a useful tool to speed up the translation process, especially for content that is more straightforward or technical in nature.

Crowdin also integrates support for other translation engines like, Google Translate, Microsoft Translator, Translate, DeepL Pro, Amazon Translate, and Watson (IBM) Translate engines. But for this project, we will only use the Crowdin MTS.

Here is a reference to the API documentation by Crowdin on how to use the MTS: https://developer.crowdin.com/api/v2/#operation/api.mts.getMany


## Code Implementation
Now, regarding the implementation in the backend using the machine translation engine provided by the Crowdin API:

Specifically, it uses the Machine Translation Service (MTS) provided by Crowdin to automatically translate strings of text from English to Arabic.
Here is the simple code snippet used within the backend API to translate the strings of text from English to Arabic:

```javascript
async function translateStringsWithCrowdinAPI(str_arr) {
    const url = `https://api.crowdin.com/api/v2/mts/${CROWDIN_MTS_ID}/translations`
    const res = await axios.post(
        url,
        {
            "languageRecognitionProvider": "crowdin",
            "targetLanguageId": "ar",
            "sourceLanguageId": "en",
            "strings": str_arr,
        },
        auth)

    // Replace the strings with their translations
    const translated_strings = res.data.data.translations

    return translated_strings
}
```
The code snippet above is a function that takes an array of strings and returns an array of translated strings. 
It does this by sending a POST request to the Crowdin MTS endpoint with the strings to be translated and the target and source languages specified. Once the request is made, the function waits for the response from the Crowdin API, which includes the translated strings.

To carry out translation using the Machine Translation Engine, you'll need to select any translation engine of your choice, each translation engine has an `id` attached to it, this `id` will be needed when making requests to carry out translation. In our case the `CROWDIN_MTS_ID` holds the `id` of the translation engine we chose.

You can make a request to the Crowdin API to get the list of available translation engines and their MTS ID, for more info visit [here](https://developer.crowdin.com/api/v2/#operation/api.mts.getMany)

Here is the code snippet used within the backend API to translate the strings of text from English to Arabic:
```javascript
async function translateDoc(document) {
    let data = document;

    const string_indexes = {};
    const strings_to_translate = [];

    // Fields that we want to translate
    const translatable_fields = {
        'title': 'title',
        'description': 'description',
        'question': 'question',
        'correct_option': 'correct_option',
    }

    // Get the indexes of the strings to translate
    // and add the field index to the string_indexes object
    let string_index = 0;
    for (const field in data.toObject()) {
        if (translatable_fields[field]) {
            string_indexes[field] = string_index;
            string_index++;
            strings_to_translate.push(data[field]);
        }
    }

    // Use the Crowdin API to translate the strings
    const translated_strings = await translateStringsWithCrowdinAPI(strings_to_translate)

    // Replace the strings with their translations
    // Add the translated string to the data object
    for (const field in string_indexes) {
        data[field + '_tr'] = translated_strings[string_indexes[field]];
    }

    // If the document is a question, also translate the options and correct option
    if (data.type === "question") {
        data.options_tr = await translateStringsWithCrowdinAPI(data.options);

        const translated_correct_option = data.options_tr[data.correct_option];
        data.correct_option = translated_correct_option[0];
    }

    return data;
}
```
The translateDoc function takes a mongoose document as input and iterates through its fields to identify which ones are translatable. It then builds an array of strings to be translated and sends them to the translateStringsWithCrowdinAPI function.

Once the translated strings are returned, the translateDoc function replaces the original strings with their translated versions in the data object. If the document is a question, the options and correct option fields are also translated.

The use of the Crowdin API machine translation engine simplifies the translation process by automating the translation of strings, making it faster and more accurate than manual translation.